.\" Manpage for tg-cli-ro.
.\" Hand-maintained; keep in sync with src/main/tg_cli_ro.c print_usage().
.TH TG-CLI-RO 1 "2026-04-19" "tg-cli 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tg-cli-ro \- unofficial batch Telegram client, read-only by construction

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tg-cli-ro
[\fIGLOBAL FLAGS\fR] \fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tg-cli-ro
is the read-only sibling of
.BR tg-cli (1).
It is compile-time guaranteed never to mutate server state: the
write-capable domain library (\fBtg-domain-write\fR) is simply not
linked into this binary, so no mutation RPC (\fBmessages.sendMessage\fR,
\fBmessages.readHistory\fR, edit/delete/forward, upload) is reachable
even if an argument-parse bug were exploited. See
.I docs/adr/0005-three-binary-architecture.md.
.PP
Use this binary for scripted, cron-safe, audit-friendly read access to
your Telegram account. For interactive use, see
.BR tg-tui (1).
For write access, see
.BR tg-cli (1).

.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.BI --phone " number"
Phone number in E.164 form for the first-time login. Subsequent runs
resume the persisted session.
.TP
.BI --code " digits"
SMS or Telegram-app code received during login.
.TP
.BI --password " pass"
Two-factor-authentication password (SRP via
.BR account.getPassword (3MTP)
+
.BR auth.checkPassword (3MTP)).
.TP
.B --logout
Clear \fB~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin\fR and exit.
.TP
.B --json
Emit machine-readable JSON on stdout where supported.
.TP
.BI --config " <path>"
Use a non-default config file path (default:
.BR ~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini ).
.TP
.B --quiet
Suppress informational output.
.TP
.BR --help , " -h"
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR --version , " -v"
Show version and exit.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B me
Show own profile (US-05).
.TP
.BI dialogs " [--limit N] [--archived]"
List up to N dialogs (default 20) (US-04). Each entry reports the
dialog kind, title, and \fB@username\fR when available.
Pass
.B --archived
to list the Telegram Archive folder instead of the default inbox
(\fBfolder_id\fR=1 vs. \fBfolder_id\fR=0 in
.BR messages.getDialogs (3MTP)).
.TP
.BI history " <peer> [--limit N] [--offset N] [--no-media]"
Fetch message history from \fIpeer\fR (US-06). Extracts text, media
kind, and \fBphoto_id\fR / \fBdocument_id\fR where present.
.RS
.TP
.BI --limit " N"
Maximum number of messages to fetch (default 20).
.TP
.BI --offset " N"
Wire-level message ID offset for pagination.
.TP
.B --no-media
Suppress pure-media entries; show only caption for mixed entries.
.RE
.TP
.BI search " [<peer>] <query>"
Search messages (US-10). Without \fIpeer\fR the query is global.
.TP
.BI user-info " <peer>"
Show user or channel info (US-09).
.TP
.BI watch " [--peers X,Y] [--interval SEC]"
Poll-loop over
.BR updates.getDifference (3MTP)
for incoming messages (US-07). Optional
.B --peers
filters the event stream.
Optional
.B --interval
sets the polling period in seconds (range 2\(en3600, default 30).
.TP
.BI download " <peer> <msg_id> [--out PATH]"
Download a photo attachment from a specific message (US-08). Defaults
to \fB~/.cache/tg-cli/downloads/photo-<photo_id>.jpg\fR; cross-DC
\fBFILE_MIGRATE_X\fR is handled transparently (US-15).
.TP
.B help
Alias for
.B --help.
.TP
.B version
Alias for
.B --version.

.SH PEER SYNTAX
Peers accept any of:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fB@username\fR \(em resolved via
.BR contacts.resolveUsername (3MTP)
(US-16).
.IP \[bu]
numeric id (\fB123456789\fR, \fB-100...\fR for channels).
.IP \[bu]
the sentinel \fBme\fR for your own Saved Messages dialog.

.SH CREDENTIALS
.B tg-cli-ro
needs an \fBapi_id\fR and \fBapi_hash\fR from
\fIhttps://my.telegram.org\fR. Provide them via either:
.IP \[bu] 2
environment: \fBTG_CLI_API_ID\fR, \fBTG_CLI_API_HASH\fR.
.IP \[bu]
config file: \fBapi_id=\fR, \fBapi_hash=\fR lines in
\fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR (mode 0600).

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini
Credentials + current DC info (mode 0600). Shared with
.BR tg-cli (1)
and
.BR tg-tui (1).
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin
Persistent MTProto auth key + DC id + server salt (mode 0600). Removed
by
.B --logout.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/downloads/
Default destination for downloaded media (mode 0700).
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/logs/session.log
Diagnostic log; see
.I docs/dev/logging.md.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TG_CLI_API_ID
Overrides \fBapi_id\fR from the config file.
.TP
.B TG_CLI_API_HASH
Overrides \fBapi_hash\fR from the config file.
.TP
.B TG_CLI_LOG_PLAINTEXT
If \fB1\fR, include plaintext TL bodies at \fILOG_DEBUG\fR. Off by
default.
.TP
.B HOME
Controls the location of the config, cache, and session directories.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Arg-parse error, bootstrap failure, missing credentials, or RPC error.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
First-time login + print own profile, JSON-formatted:
.EX
tg-cli-ro --phone +15551234567 --code 12345 --json me
.EE
.PP
List the last 20 dialogs, JSON for piping:
.EX
tg-cli-ro dialogs --limit 20 --json
.EE
.PP
List archived dialogs:
.EX
tg-cli-ro dialogs --archived --json
.EE
.PP
Read the last 50 messages of a channel:
.EX
tg-cli-ro history @somechannel --limit 50
.EE
.PP
Global search:
.EX
tg-cli-ro search "hello world" --json
.EE
.PP
Download a photo from a specific message to a custom path:
.EX
tg-cli-ro download @peer 12345 --out ~/pic.jpg
.EE
.PP
Watch incoming updates from two peers:
.EX
tg-cli-ro watch --peers @peer1,@peer2
.EE
.PP
Clear the persisted session:
.EX
tg-cli-ro --logout
.EE

.SH SECURITY
Read-only by link-time construction. All other security guarantees
identical to
.BR tg-cli (1):
MTProto 2.0 AES-256-IGE, MITM-hardened DH handshake, mode-0600 config /
session files, no plaintext bodies in logs by default.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tg-cli (1),
.BR tg-tui (1).
.PP
Specification: \fIdocs/SPECIFICATION.md\fR. Architecture decision:
\fIdocs/adr/0005-three-binary-architecture.md\fR.

.SH LIMITATIONS
Unofficial client; not affiliated with Telegram. Secret (E2E) chats,
voice/video calls, payments, and sticker creation are out of scope.

.SH BUGS
Report issues at \fIhttps://github.com/csjpeter/tg-cli/issues\fR.

.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later.

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Csaszar <peter@csaszar.email>.
