.\" Manpage for tg-cli.
.\" Hand-maintained; keep in sync with src/main/tg_cli.c print_usage().
.TH TG-CLI 1 "2026-04-19" "tg-cli 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tg-cli \- unofficial batch Telegram client (read + write) speaking MTProto 2.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tg-cli
[\fIGLOBAL FLAGS\fR] \fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tg-cli
is a batch-mode command-line Telegram user-client. It speaks the MTProto
2.0 protocol directly over TCP sockets \(em there is no HTTP stack, no
TDLib, and no third-party Telegram library.
.PP
Three binaries share one protocol codebase. Use
.B tg-cli-ro
(see
.BR tg-cli-ro (1))
for read-only scripted work and
.B tg-tui
(see
.BR tg-tui (1))
for the interactive REPL.
.B tg-cli
covers all subcommands \(em both read commands
.RB ( me ,
.BR dialogs ,
.BR history ,
.BR search ,
.BR contacts ,
.BR user-info ,
.BR watch ,
.BR download )
and write commands
.RB ( send ,
.BR read ,
.BR edit ,
.BR delete ,
.BR forward ,
.BR send-file ).
The binary is pipe-friendly: pass
.B --stdin
to
.B send
to read the message body from standard input.

.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.BI --config " path"
Use a non-default config file path (default: \fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR).
.TP
.B --json
Emit machine-readable JSON on stdout where supported.
.TP
.B --quiet
Suppress informational/diagnostic text on stdout.
.TP
.BI --phone " number"
Phone number in E.164 form (e.g. \fB+15551234567\fR). Used for the first
login; afterwards the session is resumed from \fB~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin\fR.
.TP
.BI --code " digits"
SMS or Telegram-app code received during login.
.TP
.BI --password " pass"
Two-factor-authentication password. Only required when the account has
2FA enabled (SRP exchange via
.BR account.getPassword (3MTP)
and
.BR auth.checkPassword (3MTP)).
.TP
.B --logout
Clear the persisted session at \fB~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin\fR and
exit.
.TP
.BR --help , " -h"
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR --version , " -v"
Show the version string and exit.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS Read subcommands
.TP
.BI me " (or self)"
Show the authenticated user's own profile (US-05).
.TP
.BI dialogs " [--limit N] [--archived]"
List the most recent dialogs (US-04). Dates are Unix epoch seconds.
.TP
.BI history " <peer> [--limit N] [--offset N] [--no-media]"
Fetch message history for a peer (US-06). Dates are Unix epoch seconds;
use \fBdate -d @$ts\fR to format them.
.TP
.BI search " [<peer>] <query> [--limit N]"
Search messages globally or within a peer (US-10). Dates are Unix epoch
seconds.
.TP
.B contacts
List the user's contact list (US-09).
.TP
.BI user-info " <peer>"
Resolve and display info for a user or channel (US-09).
.TP
.BI watch " [--peers X,Y,Z] [--interval N]"
Poll for new messages with \fBupdates.getDifference\fR (US-07). Use
\fB--json\fR for NDJSON output, one object per new message. Dates are
Unix epoch seconds. Interrupt with \fBCtrl-C\fR or \fBSIGINT\fR.
.TP
.BI download " <peer> <msg_id> [--out PATH]"
Download a photo or document from a message (US-08).

.SS Write subcommands
.TP
.BI send " <peer> [--reply N] <message>"
Send a text message. With \fB--reply N\fR, send it as a reply to
message id N (US-12).
.TP
.BI send " <peer> --stdin"
Read the message body from standard input. Useful in shell pipes:
.B echo hello | tg-cli send @peer --stdin
(P8-03).
.TP
.BI read " <peer> [--max-id N]"
Mark peer's history as read up to message id N (or all unread) (US-12).
.TP
.BI edit " <peer> <msg_id> <text>"
Edit a previously sent message (US-13).
.TP
.BI delete " <peer> <msg_id> [--revoke]"
Delete a message; with \fB--revoke\fR it is removed for all participants
as well (US-13).
.TP
.BI forward " <from_peer> <to_peer> <msg_id>"
Forward one message between peers (US-13).
.TP
.BI send-file " <peer> <path> [--caption T]"
Upload a local file as a document with an optional caption. Small files
(< 10 MiB) use
.BR upload.saveFilePart (3MTP);
larger ones are automatically chunked via
.BR upload.saveBigFilePart (3MTP)
up to a 1.5 GiB cap (US-14).

.SS Session subcommands
.TP
.BI login " [--api-id N --api-hash HEX] [--force]"
First-run config wizard. Interactive when \fB--api-id\fR and
\fB--api-hash\fR are omitted and stdin is a TTY. Batch mode when both
flags are provided; use \fB--force\fR to overwrite an existing config.
See \fB.SH CONFIGURATION\fR and \fIdocs/user/setup-my-telegram-org.md\fR.
.TP
.B --logout
Clear the persisted session at \fB~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin\fR and exit.

.SH PEER SYNTAX
Peers accept any of:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fB@username\fR \(em resolved via
.BR contacts.resolveUsername (3MTP)
(US-16).
.IP \[bu]
numeric id \(em e.g. \fB123456789\fR or \fB-100xxxxxxxxxx\fR (channel).
.IP \[bu]
the sentinel \fBme\fR \(em your own "Saved Messages" dialog.

.SH CREDENTIALS
.B tg-cli
needs an \fBapi_id\fR and \fBapi_hash\fR (obtain one free from
\fIhttps://my.telegram.org\fR \(em "API development tools"). Provide them
via either:
.IP \[bu] 2
environment: \fBTG_CLI_API_ID\fR, \fBTG_CLI_API_HASH\fR.
.IP \[bu]
config file: \fBapi_id=\fR, \fBapi_hash=\fR lines in
\fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR (mode 0600).

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini
INI file holding \fBapi_id\fR, \fBapi_hash\fR, and current DC metadata.
Created with mode 0600.
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin
Persistent MTProto auth key + DC id + server salt. Created with mode
0600. Removed by
.B --logout.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/downloads/
Default destination for downloaded media. Created with mode 0700.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/logs/session.log
Diagnostic log. Rotated at 5 MB; see
.BR tg-cli (7)
and
.I docs/dev/logging.md
for levels.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TG_CLI_API_ID
Overrides \fBapi_id\fR from the config file.
.TP
.B TG_CLI_API_HASH
Overrides \fBapi_hash\fR from the config file.
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate the config, cache, and session directories.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following server errors (from \fBrpc_error\fR) are propagated to stdout/stderr
with a non-zero exit:
.TP
.B FLOOD_WAIT_X
Rate limit; the server requested a \fIX\fR-second delay before the next request.
All commands (send, edit, delete, forward, upload) surface this with exit code 1.
.TP
.B MESSAGE_ID_INVALID
The message id does not exist or is inaccessible. Returned by \fBedit\fR,
\fBdelete\fR, and \fBforward\fR (US-13).
.TP
.B MESSAGE_AUTHOR_REQUIRED
The user is not the author and cannot edit the message. Returned by \fBedit\fR (US-13).
.TP
.B PEER_ID_INVALID
The peer identifier is invalid or inaccessible. May be returned by any write command.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Runtime error (bootstrap failure, missing credentials, RPC error,
network error, message/peer validation failure).
.TP
.B 2
Argument parse error (invalid flag or subcommand combination).

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Send a one-line message:
.EX
tg-cli send @peer "hi there"
.EE
.PP
Pipe a file's content as a message:
.EX
cat body.txt | tg-cli send @peer --stdin
.EE
.PP
Reply to a specific message id:
.EX
tg-cli send @peer --reply 12345 "threaded answer"
.EE
.PP
Upload a document with a caption:
.EX
tg-cli send-file @peer ./report.pdf --caption "final version"
.EE
.PP
Mark a peer's history as read:
.EX
tg-cli read @peer
.EE
.PP
Clear the persisted session (requires re-login next time):
.EX
tg-cli --logout
.EE

.SH CONFIGURATION
.B tg-cli
requires an \fBapi_id\fR (a short integer) and \fBapi_hash\fR (a 32-character
hex string) issued by Telegram. Obtain them once, for free, from
\fIhttps://my.telegram.org\fR \(em "API development tools". See
.I docs/user/setup-my-telegram-org.md
for a step-by-step walkthrough.
.PP
Three ways to supply the credentials:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBInteractive wizard:\fR run \fBtg-tui login\fR (or \fBtg-cli login\fR)
for a prompted setup that writes \fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR
(mode 0600) automatically.
.IP \[bu]
\fBEnvironment variables:\fR set \fBTG_CLI_API_ID\fR and
\fBTG_CLI_API_HASH\fR before invoking the binary. Useful in CI or
containerised environments.
.IP \[bu]
\fBManual config file:\fR add \fBapi_id=\fR and \fBapi_hash=\fR lines to
\fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR, then \fBchmod 600\fR that file.
tg-cli refuses to read a config file that is world-readable.

.SH SIGNALS
All signals use the default POSIX handlers. No custom signal handlers are
registered; standard termination and interrupt behaviour apply.

.SH SECURITY
.B tg-cli
implements MTProto 2.0 end-to-transport encryption: AES-256-IGE over a
2048-bit DH auth key, SHA-256 message keys, MITM-hardened via
\fBnew_nonce_hash1\fR verification during the handshake. Credentials and
session files are written with mode 0600. The logger does not include
plaintext message bodies by default. See
.I docs/legal-research.md
for licensing and API-ToS notes.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tg-cli-ro (1),
.BR tg-tui (1).
.PP
Project documentation:
.I https://github.com/csjpeter/tg-cli.
Specification: \fIdocs/SPECIFICATION.md\fR; roadmap: \fIdocs/userstory/US-00-roadmap.md\fR.

.SH LIMITATIONS
This is an \fBunofficial\fR client; it is not affiliated with, nor
endorsed by, Telegram FZ-LLC. Secret (end-to-end) chats, voice/video
calls, payments, and sticker creation are out of scope. MSVC is not a
supported compiler.

.SH BUGS
Report issues at \fIhttps://github.com/csjpeter/tg-cli/issues\fR.

.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later. See \fBLICENSE\fR in the source tree.

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Csaszar <peter@csaszar.email>.
