.\" Manpage for tg-tui.
.\" Hand-maintained; keep in sync with src/main/tg_tui.c print_help() and --tui mode.
.TH TG-TUI 1 "2026-04-19" "tg-cli 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tg-tui \- interactive Telegram client with REPL and optional curses-style TUI

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tg-tui
[\fB--tui\fR] [\fIGLOBAL FLAGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tg-tui
is the interactive member of the
.B tg-cli
family. It shares the MTProto 2.0 codebase with
.BR tg-cli (1)
and
.BR tg-cli-ro (1),
but adds a readline-style REPL by default, and an optional curses-style
pane-based UI when started with \fB--tui\fR. It supports the full read
+ write surface (send, reply, edit, delete, forward, read markers, file
upload).

.SH MODES
.SS Default REPL
Without \fB--tui\fR,
.B tg-tui
drops into an interactive line-editor at the prompt \fBtg>\fR. Built-in
line editing: left/right cursor, Home/End, backspace/delete, Ctrl-A /
Ctrl-E / Ctrl-K, Up/Down history, Ctrl-R reverse-search. History is
kept in-session only (no disk persistence).
.PP
All commands accept an optional leading \fB/\fR (IRC-style). Press
\fBCtrl-D\fR, or type \fBquit\fR, \fBexit\fR, or \fB:q\fR, to leave.

.SS --tui mode (curses-style)
With \fB--tui\fR,
.B tg-tui
switches to a three-pane layout:
.IP \[bu] 2
left \(em dialog list (scrollable, with unread badges),
.IP \[bu]
right \(em history pane for the selected dialog,
.IP \[bu]
bottom \(em status row (mode-sensitive hints + last error / "loading\[u2026]").
.PP
Uses the in-project TUI engine (double-buffered screen, SIGWINCH-aware
resize, 5\ s timeout poll for live updates via
.BR updates.getDifference (3MTP)).
Bindings: \fBj\fR / \fBk\fR move selection, \fBg\fR / \fBG\fR jump to
top/bottom, \fBh\fR / \fBl\fR switch pane focus, \fBEnter\fR opens the
selected dialog, \fBq\fR / \fBQ\fR quits.

.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.B --tui
Use the curses-style UI instead of the REPL.
.TP
.BI --phone " number"
Phone number in E.164 form for first-time login.
.TP
.BI --code " digits"
SMS or Telegram-app code.
.TP
.BI --password " pass"
2FA password.
.TP
.B --logout
Clear persisted session and exit.

.SH REPL COMMANDS
Commands apply to the current user's account; a leading \fB/\fR is
optional.

.SS Read
.TP
.B me
Show own profile (US-05).
.TP
.BI dialogs " [N]"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI list " [N]"
.PD
List up to N dialogs (default 20) (US-04).
.TP
.BI history " [<peer>] [N]"
Fetch N messages of history (US-06). Without \fIpeer\fR, reads the
Saved Messages dialog.
.TP
.B contacts
List contacts (US-09).
.TP
.BI info " <@peer>"
Resolve and show peer info (US-09 + US-16).
.TP
.BI search " <query>"
Global message search, top 20 results (US-10).
.TP
.B poll
One-shot
.BR updates.getDifference (3MTP)
to drain pending events (US-07).
.TP
.BI read " <peer>"
Mark the peer's history as read (US-12).

.SS Write
.TP
.BI send " <peer> <text>"
Send a text message (US-12).
.TP
.BI reply " <peer> <msg_id> <text>"
Send as a reply to an existing message id (US-12).
.TP
.BI edit " <peer> <msg_id> <text>"
Edit a previously sent message (US-13).
.TP
.BI delete " <peer> <msg_id> [revoke]"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI del " <peer> <msg_id> [revoke]"
.PD
Delete a message; add the \fBrevoke\fR token to remove it for all
participants (US-13).
.TP
.BI forward " <from> <to> <msg_id>"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI fwd " <from> <to> <msg_id>"
.PD
Forward one message between peers (US-13).
.TP
.BI upload " <peer> <path> [caption]"
Upload a file as a document with an optional caption (US-14).

.SS Session
.TP
.B help, ?
Show the full command list.
.TP
.B quit, exit, :q
Leave the TUI.

.SH PEER SYNTAX
Same as
.BR tg-cli (1):
\fB@username\fR, numeric id, or the \fBme\fR sentinel for Saved Messages.

.SH CREDENTIALS
Same as
.BR tg-cli (1)
and
.BR tg-cli-ro (1):
\fBTG_CLI_API_ID\fR / \fBTG_CLI_API_HASH\fR env vars, or
\fBapi_id=\fR / \fBapi_hash=\fR in
\fB~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini\fR.

.SH FILES
Shared with
.BR tg-cli (1)
and
.BR tg-cli-ro (1):
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/config.ini
Credentials + DC info.
.TP
.B ~/.config/tg-cli/session.bin
Persistent MTProto auth key / DC id / salt.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/downloads/
Default downloaded-media directory.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/tg-cli/logs/session.log
Diagnostic log (rotated at 5 MB).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TG_CLI_API_ID \fR/\fP TG_CLI_API_HASH
Override config file credentials.
.TP
.B TG_CLI_LOG_PLAINTEXT
If \fB1\fR, include plaintext TL bodies at \fILOG_DEBUG\fR.
.TP
.B TERM \fR/\fP COLUMNS
Affect rendering under
.B --tui.
A resize is handled live via SIGWINCH.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Bootstrap failure, missing credentials, or login failure.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start the REPL:
.EX
tg-tui
.EE
.PP
Then, inside the REPL:
.EX
tg> dialogs 20
tg> history @somechannel 50
tg> send @user "hello there"
tg> reply @user 12345 "nice"
tg> edit  @user 12345 "fixed typo"
tg> upload @user ~/docs/report.pdf "final version"
tg> poll
tg> :q
.EE
.PP
Start the three-pane UI:
.EX
tg-tui --tui
.EE
.PP
Login on a fresh machine:
.EX
tg-tui --phone +15551234567 --code 12345 --password hunter2
.EE

.SH SECURITY
Identical to
.BR tg-cli (1):
AES-256-IGE, MITM-hardened DH, mode-0600 config/session files, no
plaintext bodies in the log by default.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tg-cli (1),
.BR tg-cli-ro (1).
.PP
TUI design notes:
\fIdocs/userstory/US-11-tui-mvp.md\fR,
\fIdocs/userstory/US-00-roadmap.md\fR ("Curses TUI" backlog subsection).

.SH LIMITATIONS
Unofficial client. Secret (E2E) chats, voice/video calls, payments,
sticker creation are out of scope. The
.B --tui
mode assumes a terminal with UTF-8 locale and ANSI-compatible cursor /
SGR handling; wide-glyph layout depends on a working
.BR wcwidth (3).

.SH BUGS
Report issues at \fIhttps://github.com/csjpeter/tg-cli/issues\fR.

.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later.

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Csaszar <peter@csaszar.email>.
